Data Federation (#5)
serge-andreyev/dotnet-eud: interface-elements-for-desktop/articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/bind-to-data/bind-a-report-to-a-federated-data-source.md

---
title: Bind a Report to a Federated Data Source
owner: Anna Gubareva
---
# Bind a Report to a Federated Data Source

> This topic describes how to create a federated data source that joins data from multiple data sources into a single query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to create a federated data source that combines data from multiple data sources into a single query.
```

## Create a Report and Data Sources

1. [Create a new blank report](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/report-designer-tools/report-wizard/blank-report.md).

> 2. [Add a SQL data source](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/bind-to-data/bind-a-report-to-a-database.md) that provides one out of the two data tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Add a SQL data source](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/bind-to-data/bind-a-report-to-a-database.md) that provides one data table.
```

3. [Add an Excel data source](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/bind-to-data/bind-a-report-to-an-excel-workbook.md) that provides the other data table.

    ![](../../../../images/eurd-federated-datasource-excel-datasource.png)

## Create Data Federation and Bind the Report to It

> 1. Click the report's smart tag, expand the **Data Source** property's drop-down menu and click **Add New DataSource**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the report's smart tag, expand the **Data Source** property's drop-down menu, and click **Add New DataSource**.
```

    ![](../../../../images/eurd-add-federated-datasource.png)

2. In the invoked [Data Source Wizard](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/report-designer-tools/data-source-wizard.md), select **Data Federation** and click **Next**.

    ![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-wizard.png)

3. On the next page, click **Add Query**.

    ![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-wizard-add-query.png)

4. In the invoked [Query Builder](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/report-designer-tools/query-builder.md), drag and drop the table from the SQL data source onto the design surface.

    ![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-query-builder-drop-table.png)

> 5. Drag and drop the Excel data source onto the design surface. In the invoked **Join Editor**, select the **Inner join** type and create a join relationship based on the key field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Drag and drop the Excel data source onto the design surface. In the invoked **Join Editor**, select the **Inner join** type and create a relationship based on the key field.
```

Reviewer: Why a 'join' relationship?

    ![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-query-builder-join-tables.png)

> 6. Enable check boxes for the data fields you want to include in the query result set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Enable checkboxes for the data fields you want to include in the query result set.
```

    ![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-query-builder-select-fields.png)

7. Click **OK** to close the Query Builder. Click **Finish** to complete the Data Source Wizard.
 
The Wizard creates a new **FederationDataSource** that includes the single query. This data source becomes available in the [Report Explorer](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/report-designer-tools/ui-panels/report-explorer.md)'s **Components** node. The [Field List](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/report-designer-tools/ui-panels/field-list.md) reflects the data source structure.

![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-data-source-structure.png)

> The federated query's default name equals to the main table's name. You can rename this query in the **Manage Queries** dialog. To invoke it, right-click the data source in the Field List or Report Explorer and select **Manage Queries** in the context menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The federated query's default name is the same as the main table's name. To rename this query, right-click the data source in the Field List or Report Explorer and select **Manage Queries** in the context menu.
```

![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-rename-query.png)

Once you rename the query, update the report's **Data Member** property.

![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-report-data-source-property.png)

## Design the Report Layout

1. Click the report's smart tag and select **Design in Report Wizard**.

    ![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-design-in-report-wizard.png)

2. In the invoked [Report Wizard](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/report-designer-tools/report-wizard.md), select **Table Report** and click **Next**.

    ![](../../../../images/eurd-data-federation-report-wizard-table-report.png)

> 3. Select data fields to display in the report and click **Finish**. You can also go to the [next page](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/report-designer-tools/report-wizard/table-report/add-grouping-levels.md) to continue layout creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select data fields to display in the report and click **Finish**. You can also go to the [next page](../../../../articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/report-designer-tools/report-wizard/table-report/add-grouping-levels.md) to specify the layout.
```
